so then the next one is around fully
automating roles and a agents this is
what everyone wants right but we're not
there where like end to-end processes
are automated again yet and there's a
tweet I think from Yan laon back in
February that was saying ask not what
llms can do for planning ask what
planning can do for llms the llms are
not good at planning right they're good
at predicting the next step and as part
of that you can't rely on LMS to do the
end end processing yet but what we are
seeing as as a a flip side to that is
there are llm powered processes as part
of people's roles I think no matter what
interactions you've had with legal
industry would you rather have an AI
lawyer or would you rather have trained
lawyer who's assisted by the best AI
pargal in the world I think everyone
would actually the price was equal
choose that the trained lawyer assisted
by the best AI paralal and this
combination of human and machine will
beat the machine only please welcome
Jason Bay Mig co-founder and CEO at
Ironclad Inc and SEMA
amul hey y great to be here H thanks for
thanks for joining us so we're going to
talk a little bit about five things that
are working and not working yet in AI
for SAS maybe quick intros yeah so I'm
Jason CEO co-founder ironcloud we're a
contract management platform which means
we help businesses with the entire life
cycle of their contracts could be sales
contracts vendor agreements you name it
we're helping them make them and keep
track of all the information on them and
I'm SEMA I'm a partner in adreon Horwitz
I focus on early stage investing and
have been doing software investing for
the last 15 years I actually met Jason
at one of the Ironclad rooftop law
schools was that what it was called yeah
in I think 2016 and both of us have gone
to law school so nerded out over that
and it's always fun to be back together
yeah and excited to be here today what
we're gonna try to do is really talk
through just some kind of like field
notes on AI what's
working what are we seeing in with the
length that we have and then some of the
things that aren't working that I think
are still to be figured out by the
industry and hopefully we can get there
together yeah so you'll get like what
we're seeing from talking to early stage
companies and then the like founder
company Builder experience as well all
right let's dive in so we're going to
start off talking about what's
working the first one is using AI to
help with onboarding um so I'd put
onboarding along with customer support
which is two of the use cases you've
probably heard a lot about we're seeing
a lot of companies have success getting
using AI either through tools they've
built themselves or through SAS vendors
help users understand a new Behavior or
use a product for the first time with
the help of AI so to put this concretely
there's a whole set of presentation
software AI driven presentation software
that's been growing really quickly in
the last year or two and this category
actually I wouldn't say struggled but it
was growing much more slowly it was
harder to get folks to get used to like
an AI generated
presentation once they build started
building templates and the onboarding
flow via AI themselves the that new user
Behavior was a lot easier to learn and
that same thing we're seeing across
other categories as well and a lot of
times our companies are using SAS
venders help with that everything from
honestly the demo all the way through
the like support and so onboarding is
definitely one of them but like it takes
a lot of the the learning and the like
coaching and Professional Services that
has to go in through the implementation
period and AI is able to help with that
yeah and so something that drives me
crazy as the founder is this
just effort required to get a customer
set up and like successfully using the
platform um and for us like there's a
lot of that there's discovering the
legal team's preferences like how they
like to negotiate a contract when they
see this language they like to respond
with this other language that's in their
playbook and the way we have done that
historically is deliver Professional
Services and scope it and ask a bunch of
questions what we're seeing early
progress on is this ability of AI to
help actually discover preferences in
just a bunch of contracts understand
what the legal team we're working with
likes to do and then actually help
Implement that in the software so that
when they go through a workflow their
preferences are already set up I think
early days but extraordinarily excited
about this because one it can help
expand the category it can help expand
the number of customers that we can
successfully serve and bring down our
cost of service as we are G Stage
Company Series E plus we really want to
look at those un economics and I think
this can really help with that yeah and
I think implementation and getting your
customers live on products faster is a
piece is a a journey that a lot of SAS
companies struggle with and if you can
get it if you can lessen the burden on
yourselves and get the help of uh
something that has learned off of many
other customers and that customer itself
why not use
it yeah the next point we want to talk
about is what we're calling automating
basic manual work processes so what does
that mean one of the things that AI has
obviously done very well is around like
transcription note taking um and
anything around this language use um and
so what AI has done a very good job of
and I think helped a lot of SAS
companies Drive usage and engagement
with their customers um is around this
feature set so anything from someone
like MailChimp using AI to autogenerate
email copy Zoom doing summarization
notes Dropbox having a search feature
these are all things that you guys are
probably using but it takes away that
extra time that you would have spent and
it's just naturally part of the workflow
and so it's not really asking for
something that's a big step for the user
to really change but it just makes your
work a lot easier
and so that's where we're seeing it a
lot especially on the horizontal side on
the vertical SAS side a lot of we're
seeing a whole set of new companies that
are popping up around these sort of
basic manual work processes because if
you're a vertical provider so if you're
providing software to vet clinics for
example there's a lot of time spent like
transcribing notes taking inbound phone
calls summarizing the notes and then
data entry and then autofilling out
forms now you can do all of that and not
need to hire someone necessarily or hire
two people and you can just hire one to
do that same work and it's again it's
very seamlessly fit
into into the workflow but we're seeing
a lot of vertical SAS companies grow
quickly with that wedge so I love that
this is in our working category because
to like rewind for a little bit we
started ironcloud in 2014 as ironcloud
doai and the basic idea around this was
company have lots of contracts they
don't really know what's in them what if
we used AI to read the contract and
build a
database that turns out that didn't
actually work in 2014 and so we had to
go a different direction build all these
like workflow tools but this is actually
working now and it's a special moment
for me because we take our customers
contracts we run them through Ai and we
extract the key data points and put them
in a database um it's a great
application I think we're seeing it
across
Industries and it actually works now 10
years later yeah no and I think part of
the reason of saying why is it working I
think always back to my point around
usage and engagement and love of your
product I think we're seeing a lot of
SAS companies that have successfully
just added this into their feature set
like just yet either sell more seats or
find uh more you know daily usage of
their product the next point is around
staying on the main branch for core
model capabilities yeah there's kind of
two approaches that we're seeing at
least in our space one is you go to a
foundational model provider and again
this is for the use case of building AI
that understands legal language legal
Concepts you can take the base models
GPT and fine-tune them and build
additional infrastructure like rag
around them or what the foundational
model company seem to be selling is the
ability to build a fully custom model
and this would be something like
GPT stripping out the Reddit training
data adding in Delaware case law data
and having a a model that understands
Delaware case law better I think what's
interesting and what we found that that
maybe I didn't expect is staying on the
main branch staying on the core
capabilities and supplementing it with
fine-tuning and additional techniques
like rag seems to be the approach that's
winning right
now and it a good example of this is
like gpt3
hallucinated a lot of case law and was
pretty scary and you definitely didn't
want to use the results from GPT GPT 40
plus some fine tuning plus some rag on a
Delaware case law data set a lot better
and if you went off of the main branch
and built a custom auto you lost the
benefits of that so I think that this
could be something we come back next
year and say isn't working anymore but
right now I think staying on that main
branch and has a lot of benefits because
you're getting the the rapid
improvements to the foundational models
as they're delivered yeah and I think
one thing that we're seeing is this
tension behind like how much fine tuning
do you want to do how much investment in
the model do you want to do as the SAS
company versus just focusing on like The
Core Company building for a s as a SAS
company and I think to Jason's point
where we are right now there's still
like you still have to go through all
the challenges and opportunities of
building a SAS company around go to
market product Etc and so sort of making
your life easier and getting most of the
benefits of AI by staying on the main
branch is where we are right now and so
that's like what we're seeing resonating
with more of our companies so the next
thing what we called was like leaning
into vertical data and creating
propriety comment but I'll let Jason
kick it off yeah so this is really about
figuring out what the
vertical concepts are and it building AI
to understand those Concepts so again
with our touch point in the the legal
industry we want AI that understands
legal Concepts and it I think this is
one of the areas I'm most excited about
the applications that we're seeing that
were just totally not possible
before to to give a kind of practical
real world example sure you all have
negotiated a contract before or worked
at a company that has a particular way
that they like to negotiate contracts
and what happens is people basically get
stuck one company has their template
that they like the other company has
their template they like how do you
morph those together
and redlining is the legal equivalent of
doing a diff comparing two documents
what happens if you compare one
company's template versus another
company's template it's just all red
it's all in Conflict but really what
you're looking for is the concepts and
how different the concepts are so if AI
understands the
vertical Concepts the legal Concepts you
can actually do a conceptual red line
which compares the positions in two
documents that otherwise would be
completely red and this is
groundbreaking it helps attorneys
negotiate
contracts multiples
faster and I think is is some of the
really early applications of generating
real business value work with the
customers who are seeing tens of
millions of dollars in attributable
business value to speeding up attorney
workflow doing things inhouse that they
used to have to send out out
housee
and that's where we've put the effort as
opposed to trying to like build a custom
model is understand the legal Concepts
and feed those in yeah the legal I spent
a lot of time looking at sort of the
intersection between Professional
Services and AI we've seen this a lot
with legal the legal field and legal
precedent and ingesting data another
area is accounting I met an accounting
AI company a couple ago that had said
they tested GPT 40 against their
benchmarks and it was like 20% accurate
they then tested Claude and it was like
50 to 80% and then a fine tuned version
of GPD 4.0 they were getting 90 plus
percent
accuracy and so I think to Jason's Point
getting that level of accuracy is also
super important in accounting it's super
important to the law and so getting that
context from the vertical data is what
really disting which is okay I'm just
using chat GPT and enable to adjust
files or that I have and data internally
versus getting that fine-tuned model
okay so yeah we wrote this one before
have you all read the founder mode post
do we know what that
is good show hands that's not less than
I thought actually so most people have
read the founder mode post we wrote this
before founder mode and I I do think
that this is totally working in AI
specifically I actually don't agree with
ol of founder mode for what it's worth
um I I was at the YC event where that
happened and I loved the passion and
intensity and I think that the core is
something I I do agree
with so we're we have this like
Enterprise product nine figures of
Revenue growing great good clip a lot of
the company oriented around that but as
a Founder I'm like I there's a
standalone product here that is is an ai
pargal ai assistant that's more of a
general purpose
Standalone application of the technology
we've built into this Enterprise product
and I pulled five of our best engineers
and we just got in a room and pretended
like we were a different company and
people were definitely like what is
Jason doing like we have we are like
stretched in on resources why is this
like room cordoned off and what are we
working on we had a code name for the
project more room for uh the new product
yeah um but once we're able to like demo
that and it have customer interactions
that were positive and then connect
those to Opportunities we had for our
core products where this could be an
accelerate it really started picking up
momentum and so I think like getting the
ball rolling as a Founder is something
that the founders in the room can
uniquely do and I would encourage you to
uh and read founder mode if you haven't
um but this is the concept we we're
talking about here yeah and I think just
to highlight something that Jason just
brought up something that we're seeing a
lot of our Founders do is especially if
you're launching an AI product a
standalone product or it's not just like
the feature top up saying summarization
or autocomplete but it's really a
standalone product you really do need
that like
founder level engagement and drive to
push the product forward and really make
it a center of the strategy as opposed
to being like the table Stak stuff that
you have to have because every SAS
company today is an AI company but if
you're really going to differentiate
yourself in terms of your sort AI native
product you do definitely need the like
founder driven
energy we're going to move on now to
what's not working the really important
here thing here is the yet because I
think both of us are strong Optimist on
AI and I think as Jason mentioned in a
year we came up here I think we may have
different points of view and hopefully a
lot of these things will actually be
solved as the foundation models get a
lot better and and then I think also how
the user interacts with AI will change
but we wanted to give a state of how
we're seeing things as they are
today um so the first thing was going
broad to narrow what does this mean um
what we are seeing is a lot of companies
who were
building AI first Sasa appc um start to
narrow down either on a use case or a
market versus being more horizontal and
I'll give you two two examples of that
one is we've seen a ton of workflow
automation come up in the last year
because it's a
very it's a very tangible way to use LMS
to power SAS so that could be anything
from filling out
forms dock extraction Etc all that is
very powerful and powered by llms
we saw a number of these companies that
all started on a very horizontal basis
and over time they've narrowed down
serving specific Industries why because
partly it's a go to market motion piece
but partly it's also getting into the
Integrations within that vertigal
understanding the user and exactly how
they interact with the product and what
pieces of data are most useful and so
that's
actually I think you know it's instead
now we're seeing people go narrow first
versus trying to have a really broad
application I think the other piece too
another application being narrow to
begin with is now with AI teams can be
building their own software why buy an
outside software
vendor that said I think I talked to a
finance team and a Fortune 500 company
that you guys all probably know they
were originally going to use a
very a very broad General use case AI
product and then they ended up realizing
I I need to just go with the narrow
product that's set for finance because
that's that's really the way to go yeah
my think on this one is if you all have
seen the gardener chart on the hype
cycle where it's like the peak of lofty
expectations and then the trough of
disillusionment follows shortly
thereafter and then like a steady climb
out into real world application I do
think we are at the peak of inflated
lofty expectations in Ai and there's a
for good reason there's a lot of
excitement but I I think the trough is
coming and what we got to do to get out
of the trough is find the
repeatable value in Ai and it I I I
think there's a lot of work to do we
have 60% of our customers that have
adopted AI we pretty far along
in progress but there's so much to do
and our best tool is an industry for
finding that is focus so I I think this
broad is going to be an issue and the
way out is focus yeah and I would say
it's it's not just it's not dissimilar
from past like internet Cycles right
often things people try the most broad
version and then they realize okay we
actually probably have to start narrow
to actually get get adoption and get it
into people's hands especially as it's
it involves new
behaviors so the second thing is
offering self- served for the ENT and I
think Jason has some specific anecdotes
on this yeah I feel like my my hot take
on this one is plg like how how how much
did we all hear about plg the past few
years I think my big learning from this
is not everything needs to be a plg
product and if I could go give myself
advice three years ago it would be go
figure out a way to sell more million AR
repeatable deals and that's your path to
efficiency as opposed to try to tune the
unit economics exactly correct on plg
and I think this is playing out in AI
products as
well the self- serve Enterprise can be
tough leaning into the bigger deals yeah
and I think just to marry that back to
we talked about onboarding so how do you
sweare the fact that there's AI used for
onboarding and self sered there's
onboarding help which is replacing or
augmenting the implementation versus
selfs serve and I think we're you're
still seeing Enterprise level products
being sold versus like individual selfs
serve plg products but the Enterprise
version is getting assisted by a AI so
that's how I might Square those two
points um okay so then the next one is
around fully automating roles and a
agents this is what everyone wants right
but we're not there where like endtoend
processes are automated again yet and
there's a tweet I think from Yan laon
back in February that was saying ask not
what llm can do for planning ask what
planning can do for llms I really liked
it and I think it got a lot of likes so
it wasn't unique in saying this but the
LMS are not good at planning right
they're good at predicting the next step
and as part of that you can't rely on
LMS to do the endtoend
processing yet but what we are seeing as
as a a flip side to that is there are
llm powered processes as part of
people's roles and I know Jason's seen
some of that at at CL I think no matter
what interactions you've had with legal
industry would you rather have an AI
lawyer or would you rather have a
trained lawyer who's assisted by the
best AI paralal in the world I think
everyone would actually if the price was
equal choose that the trained lawyer
assisted by the best AI paralal and this
combination of human and machine will
beat the machine only so I think R I
think related to that point relying on
the quality right now for a lot of AI
generated content for complex operations
let me break down what that means I
think related to the fact right now
we're not there with fully automated
agents yet again with AI I think for
complex operations you still need a
human loop at least on the checking side
if not again the human driving the
operation right now and where does this
apply maybe 12 months ago you all
remember having AI generated images
where there would be a third arm and the
human or a sixth finger right and I
spend a lot of time looking at Ai and
marketing tools and no no brand manager
would approve an AI generated image
those hallucinate the hallucinations
around appendices the quality of images
have gotten a lot better but I think
things around law accounting things
where deterent answers are required and
there's a complex sequence of operations
where you can't you can't afford to have
the hallucinations and you need a right
answer otherwise you're going to lose
the trust of your buyer among other
things so we're not there yet again I
check it in a year I'm I'm sure there'll
be many more use cases that weren't
working now that aren't working now that
will be then but yeah and I i' just like
add on the unconstrained machine is is
not there especially for knowledge work
but you don't want 5% of your contract
work to be wrong especially if you don't
know what 5% % might be wrong huge cost
to
that and having the right human
checkpoints there is still the best way
to do things and getting ahead of those
can be problematic so the last say is
around figuring out pricing and
monetization and this is something
that's very much still an ongoing work
in progress um I'd say right now there
are generally like three modes where
people are incorporating I AI into
pricing and monetization one is it's
part of the core product and that's
usually if you're
you're trying to drive additional usage
from your users or drive more seats so
Dropbox it's like ai's part of the
product a second is like an upgrade so
if you're offering additional features
you're you have an another plan that
allows that has more AI generated
content like MailChimp does this a four
a third is it's an add-on totally add-on
module notion I think right now has a
$10 a month per person add-on where you
get a lot of the AI generated features
for notion and that's really suited for
a power user and I put the fourth bucket
of where we're still very much exploring
which is like the you've changed the
Paradigm around pricing altogether where
you're paying for resolution or this the
solution to the problem versus just the
service itself or for on an ongoing
basis so intercom has its
chat support or sorry it's support agent
that is called Finn it's actually
charging based on resolution and our
growth just to put in a plug has written
a great post post on this that that I'm
borrowing a lot of this content from you
should check it out if you want more but
the the thing that I'd highlight here is
every company
that's looking at AI pricing has not
really figured out which of these four
or maybe something else is working and
that's as you guys all know for pricing
is often a journey that every company
every year or two is going back to the
drawing board on but it's still very
much which of these buckets is
successful how do you drive value and
how do you drive usage both um from the
AI yeah if any all have figured out this
out let me know I think it's exciting
that we get to work on this together but
the the variety of approach is amazing
we're trying them all we're iterating
we're experimenting and it's one of the
things I'm excited about working in AR
right now is there are big problems out
there with no clear answer yet yeah so
that's just a little bit of what we've
been seeing from the many companies that
we interact with and from Jason's uh
experience at iron clad I think things
are changing and so we're excited to
also see what this will look like in a
year but um those are just some of our
observations in the field yeah thanks
for being here it's great to be here at
saster have a great one gol